>> Jafar Husain: We've taken
some time to review these, so
I'll remind you what the problem is.
We have this tasks,
which is a two dimensional observable.
Every single time we get
an inner observable,
the platform's saying, hey,
I'm about to do some expensive work.
It's gonna take me awhile.
And as long as the platform
is doing more than one task,
I don't want to allow animations.
So as soon as one task comes along,
I switch to false.
And then as soon as the platform has
done all of its tasks, I switch to true.
And then as soon as a new tasks comes
along false, and so on and so forth.
So what we're gonna do is
we're gonna gradually move
from tasks to animations allowed,
using the functions that we've learned.
Sorry guys at home, I haven't been as good
about staying on top of the questions.
Is it common to have larger than
two dimensional observables?
Well, larger than two dimensional,
no, it's quite rare.
In general, well,
let me put that differently.
In general when you use some function
which creates a two dimensional observer,
typically a map.
Well let's take a step back.
The most common pattern we see
in UIs is you get an event,
you kick off a network request, and then
you do something with the result, right?
So for every event,
you may wanna kick off a network request.
That simple, regular pattern creates
two-dimensional observables, right?
Cuz we take our clicks event,
you remember the clicks event?
And then we map over it, and
then we return the result of
making a network request, which is also
something we turn into an observable.
And so if we create a network request,
if we create an observable for
every piece of data in another observable,
we create a two-dimensional observable.
So let's take an example of this.
>> Jafar Husain: So here I have an array.
If I do this, what do I get guys?
>> Speaker 2: A new array.
>> Jafar Husain: Exactly what do I get?
>> Speaker 2: Two dimensional array.
>> Jafar Husain: Why do I
get a two dimensional array?
What does this have to do with
network requests and events?
Well.
>> Jafar Husain: So here I am, for every
button click, I'm pulling the currently
selected stock out of a select box and
I'm getting the price for that stock.
If getpPrice works like this,
>> Jafar Husain: This is
somewhat aspirational.
>> Jafar Husain: Right, so
getPrice returns me an observable.
It eventually gives me an extremely
high stock price, right?
getPrice is a function that
creates an observable.
So how many dimensions is
this observable right here?
>> Speaker 2: Two-dimensional.
>> Jafar Husain: Why
is it two-dimensional?
Who says one, out of curiosity?
Does anybody say one?
>> Jafar Husain: No,
we all think it's two-dimensional?
Why is it two-dimensional?
>> Speaker 2: Because
the initial observable is
we're mapping over the values and
we're creating a new observable for
every value, so it'll be
observables inside the observable.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: And we need to
use merge map.
>> Jafar Husain: That's just
like this example right here.
Well, so that's interesting.
I heard you say we need to use merge map.
And for those of you who don't know, merge
map is just a map followed by a merge all.
So, in other words,
in order to flatten it we could
do
>> Jafar Husain: Is
this what I'd want in a UI?
>> Jafar Husain: Is it?
I don't know.
>> Speaker 2: Switch map?
>> Jafar Husain: [LAUGH] Yeah,
that's a good guess.
I'd probably want switch latest here.
Who thinks another operator like,
like concatall, so we got three, right?
Merge all, concatall, switch latest.
The reality is it probably depends
on your UI requirements, but
most of the time you want to ignore
the last three requests they made for
stock prices and
you only want the current one, right?
The last thing you want to do is
give a broker an old stock price,
they tend to get really upset about that.
So I would use switchLatest,
because if somebody goes [SOUND],
we all know brokers are impatient, right?
If they do that, do I want five competing,
racing network requests to the server?
I wanna throw away the last four,
and just keep one.
And so that's why I'm gonna
use switchLatest, right?
If I was to use mergeAll,
a couple of bad things might happen.
One is I'd kick off six concurrent network
requests, maybe that's what you want.
But is there any guarantee that those
network request results are gonna come
back in the same order in
which they were kicked off?
No, right?
I got a race condition.
So switch latest helps
me solve that problem.
Now, concat all would also solve
that race condition problem.
It would wait for
the first request to come back.
Then it would make the second request, and
so you'd always get the latest numbers,
right?
But it would also take a super long time.
Remember how concatAll elongates time?
Cuz it never stops
the current network request.
It waits for the first one to be done,
and so the second one.
So you can imagine me doing this [SOUND]
and cueing up a bunch of network requests,
which is probably what I don't want,
right?
So the answer to your question is two
dimensional observables are very common,
or well, sorry, the answer technically was
is larger than two dimensional is common.
Not really,
there are some cases where you would want
larger than a two dimensional observable,
but that's not very common.
So the difference between mergeAll and
merge, this is a great question.
So we learned to merge we learned concat
and we learned mergeAll and concatAll.
MergeAll and concatAll operate on two
dimensional observables and flatten them.
So if you have a stream of streams
arriving, merge on concat.
I'll look great for that.
But sometimes you don't
have a stream of streams.
Sometimes you just got two observables,
or five observables, or nine observables.
And you have them all right now.
You just want to concat them together or
merge them together and
that's when you would
use observable.merge.
Cuz here,
if you already have the observables,
you can just plug them all in at once,
does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Is merge an actual method
that you use as an instance method?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
you can use both if you want.
>> Jafar Husain: I prefer to
use it statically cuz I find
that's a little harder to
read when I format it then.
But you're absolutely right.
You can call it like this or
you can call it like this.
I find statically when you indent it.
So it'll clear that these two are kind
of not dependent on each other but
they are just being plugged together.
>> Jafar Husain: So awesome question,
great question guys.
Now does everybody understand
the difference between concat, concatAll?
merge, mergeAll?